>> Speaker 1: What about errors?
>> Jafar Husain: In this context,
I think it's actually a good opportunity
to talk about error handling.
>> Speaker 1: So
if any observable throws and error,
doesn't that kill the whole-
>> Jafar Husain: It would.
Is that what we want in this case,
you think?
No, not really, right?
I mean the platform errors,
maybe it's a big deal,
but that's not really our problem,
at least, the problem of this routine,
that's supposed to keep track of
whether animations are allowed or not.
So I think it's a great thing to bring up.
How would we, effectively,
ignore an error?
So in this case, I would just
basically ignore an error, and
treat it like a complete.
>> Jafar Husain: Does anybody know
about any of the operators we
have with observable for handling errors?
There's a couple ones
that are super common.
One is catch.
So let's say I'm gonna denote in
observable the errors like this.
In catch,
>> Jafar Husain: And that'll give me this.
>> Jafar Husain: Almost,
I got that almost right.
So catch accept accepts a function which
accepts the error that occurred, and
it returns a new observable to
resume from this observable.
And that has effectively,
it's a little like a concat right?
Cuz you're basically in the event of
an error instead of allowing the error to
propagate through, you're concatenating on
some observable in place of that error and
continuing on from that observable.
Does that make sense,
>> Jafar Husain: Sorta?
So let's see if we can
apply that to this problem.
So we know that tasks, that any of these
individual tasks could error, right?
So what do we wanna do in the event
any of these tasks error?
So specifically this task right here,
any of these could on error.
What would we have to do?
>> Speaker 1: Return an empty observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Return
an empty observable, so.
>> Speaker 1: From the catch.
>> Jafar Husain: From a catch, yeah.
I don't care about the error, I'm just
gonna return an observable.empty and
that's basically how you ignore errors.
Not that I'm advocating for
that all the time, but
in this particular
context it's a good idea.
And that's how you ignore errors with RX.
So this is the equivalent of,
>> Jafar Husain: An irregular function.
Does that make sense?
>> Jafar Husain: Can anybody think
of something else I might do?
In this context I wouldn't do this,
but can anybody think of another way I
can handle an error in an observable?
It's very common thing on the web
to handle an error this way.
>> Jafar Husain: Let's say I make
a network request is gonna come up
in the next example.
Let's say I make a network request and
it fails.
Generally speaking what do I want to do?
Cuz it's the web and stuff happens.
>> Speaker 1: Retry.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah I don't wanna just
give up, explain our message just yet.
We know that servers even Netflix only
gets like three nines of resiliency so
every now and then a request times out.
So as a result we just wanna retry
a couple times, so we also have retry.
>> Jafar Husain: And then you can put
in the number of times you wanna retry.
So basically, what this is gonna do,
is it's gonna retry, which means that,
when it fails, it's gonna resubscribe
to the original observable, and
now we've come full circle.
Let's talk about cold and hot observables
again, and lazy and eager observables.
Remember, we talked about the idea,
of the fact that every time you
subscribe to an observable, depending
on how you've written that observable,
you could kick off
another network request.
Well, this is where it pays off.
Retry, just all it does it
subscribes if it gets an error,
it just resubscribes to
the same observable.
And in this case, it's absolutely you
want to kick off another network request.
So this is another area where being lazy
is more powerful, because instead of
doing something you've created a function
which can do something when you call it.
You can call that function multiple times,
and that's how you retry.
So if you get a promise,
you can't retry a promise,
you have to go find whatever
function created that promise.
Which who knows, could be 17
functions away in your program and
then you need to find it and
you need to create another promise.
Not so with an observable, so a great
example of where laziness pays off.
So, do I have to implement retry or
does everybody kind of get an idea of
how that would work, how retry works.
Happy to implement it.
Would we prefer that?
Would we wanna take a look at it?
Quick show of hands?
Yeah, good, great, let's try retry.
It's a fun little one to write, actually.
>> Jafar Husain: And where did I put that?
Here we go.
Nope.
>> Jafar Husain: So
let's throw in our retry operator.
help me out with this, guys.
What's retry gonna return?
>> Speaker 1: New observable.
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH] Good
default answer, I love it.
What's going to happen when you
subscribe to this observable?
>> Jafar Husain: So, when we call retry,
we create a new observable,
that when subscribed to,
will subscribe to the source.
And if it gets an error from the source,
we'll re-subscribe to that source
a certain number of times.
After which if it continues to
get an error, it will give up and
forward the error downstream.
So with that verbal description,
what am I gonna do here?
It's a little bit like Map cuz we
need to subscribe to a source.
So what's the first thing we gonna do,
cuz we're in JavaScript and
it's maybe not the world's
best programming language.
>> Speaker 3: Set self equal to this?
>> Jafar Husain: Nice.
>> Speaker 3: We need to have a handle
to the source observable i.e this, so
that we can pull data out of it.
So now that we've done that, how are we
gonna get data out of our source?
>> Jafar Husain: Self.subscribe?
>> Speaker 3: Self.subscribe
>> Jafar Husain: Great,
so if we get data, what do we do with it?
>> Speaker 1: Pass it along.
>> Jafar Husain: Pass it right along.
>> Jafar Husain: Just
gonna save this here.
>> Jafar Husain: And if we get a complete
message, what are we gonna do?
>> Speaker 3: Complete.
>> Jafar Husain: Everybody's happy, right?
If the sourceObservable
completes we're done-zo.
But what if we get an error?
>> Speaker 3: Retry and null minus 1.
>> Jafar Husain: Retry, right?
Okay so, and how am I gonna retry?
Cuz I could take this whole thing and
I could paste it right here.
That's one way of retrying, right?
That when I get the error message,
I just re subscribe to self.
What's a better way than copying and
pasting code?
>> Speaker 3: Recursion.
>> Jafar Husain: Recursion,
yes, for the win.
All right, so we're going to do the same
thing we did earlier with our concat,
we're gonna make a function
called processRequest,
there's no need for
that not to be a const.
>> Jafar Husain: Cool and now in
here we'll call a processRequest and
then we try all over again, right?
>> Jafar Husain: Okay,
what's not gonna work about this?
>> Speaker 1: Should it be static?
>> Jafar Husain: Should it be static?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: The processRequest
function?
>> Speaker 1: The whole retry.
>> Jafar Husain: Well, you want to
retry an individual observable.
So in this case it wouldn't be static,
because let's say I just created
an observable that represents
a network request.
And then I just wanna go .retry and now
I have an observable that will make that
network request n times
if there's a failure.
So in this case it makes sense for
it to be a instance method.
But I think we've picked
the right thing here, but
as it is I don't think we're done.
I mean I haven't returned
the subscription.
>> Speaker 4: It'll also go infinitely.
>> Jafar Husain: It'll also do it
infinitely if there's an error, right?
That seems like a problem.
And how do I know when to stop?
>> Speaker 1: Can we at this time pass
in the value to the recursive function?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, we can.
I see where you're going with this.
So I have num, if I pass num in there then
when I call processRequest recursively,
maybe I shouldn't mask that variable,
currentAttemptNumber.
>> Jafar Husain: So for starters,
I have to actually run this function
otherwise nothing's gonna happen, so
I'm just gonna call it once.
And at first I'm gonna pass it in the same
number of retries that was requested.
So after I've gotten one error,
what number am I gonna pass in here?
>> Speaker 1: We decrement it.
>> Jafar Husain: Decrement it?
More specifically I will do this.
And so how do I know when I'm done?
>> Speaker 1: We check at the top.
If it is the two negative 1 would be,
or is it 1.
>> Jafar Husain: I think 0 in
this case cuz it's gonna be,
I could be wrong, who knows,
off by one error if it happens.
And yeah, question?
>> Speaker 1: I have a question.
Shouldn't it be static if it
is creating an observable?
>> Jafar Husain: No, because Map creates
an observable, it's not static, right?
Filter creates an observable,
it's not static.
It's a good question.
Why are some functions static and
some functions not static?
In general, the functions that are static
are the ones that are creating
an observable from nothing or
at least, from a couple of parameters.
But once you already have an observable,
and you are transforming that observable
that's generally when you want
to use an instance method.
So you can go, my observable dot some
operation, dot some operation, etc.
So as we can see here in
this static function timeout
we didn't have an observable,
all we had was a time
at which we wanted to create an observable
that would fire after that time.
And so
that's why we have a static function.
But in the case of Map what we're saying
is I have an observable with some data
inside, I want to transform all of the
data in that observable into a new stream.
And so Map takes Map as an instance
method on an observable,
that creates a new observable.
So that's why it's an instance method.
Likewise with retry, I have some
observable that's gonna give me a stream.
But if that stream should error, I might
wanna retry subscribing to that stream,
and that's why retry is
an instance method on observable.
But it's a great question,
so it's worth clarifying.
Every recursion has the recursive case,
the case where we're repeating,
and that's what we've handled right here.
>> Jafar Husain: And it has a base case,
the case where we wanna stop.
We always have to stop at some point,
otherwise that's no fun, right?
So what do we do here when we stop?
>> Speaker 1: Complete?
>> Jafar Husain: Are we going to complete?
So the way retry works
is if it gets an error,
it tries to resubscribe, but after
a while, if it keeps getting an error,
then instead of completing it
actually forwards the error along.
So in this case, I would assume
that I would do something else.
What would I do?
>> Speaker 1: Error.
>> Jafar Husain: Observer.error,
absolutely.
And, no, where's my error object?
Did I lose it?
What happened?
>> Speaker 1: It's inside of
the subscribe, self.subscribe.
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
it was all the way down here.
We called processRequest but
our little old error got lost,
how are we going to keep track of it?
>> Speaker 5: We could put
the logic check in the error.
>> Jafar Husain: Cool,
I see where you're going here.
We could do that.
What is somebody puts in retry 0?
Is that guy just a jerk?
Should he not do that?
Screw that guy, let's not worry about him,
let's put it in here.
I think there might be a tidier
way of doing this but for
now let's put this in here.
So, if (currentAttemptNumber === 0) then.
>> Jafar Husain: I like this better.
I think you're right.
It's nice
>> Jafar Husain: So
here we will error.
>> Jafar Husain: Cool,
does that make sense?
Am I done?
>> Speaker 1: Did we
return the subscription?
>> Jafar Husain: No, we did not.
>> Speaker 1: Or the other No,
we didn't return that subscription.
>> Jafar Husain: So
I guess I'll just return the subscription.
Wait, where is my subscription?
>> Speaker 1: We can do the same
thing like we did in concat and
keep track of it.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, we could create
a reference to whatever the current
subscription is
>> Jafar Husain: And just keep,
whenever we subscribe,
again we could just reassign it.
And then we can return a subscription
object,
>> Jafar Husain: That just
takes whatever the current subscription is
>> Jafar Husain: And
then subscribes when it's called.
>> Jafar Husain: Probably
have to null check that.
>> Jafar Husain: I might not have to,
actually.
I don't think I do.